Today is going to be a very great
start to hopefully what will be a very
educational experience for all of you.
We're going to be doing a workshop
on enterprise cloud infrastructure.
That might sound very daunting.
[LAUGH] I have taken basically
the last six months of projects,
things that I've built at
the company I work at.
Things that I've built locally,
things that I've built on stream with my
community, and I've accumulated
that into basically this course.
And so the goal of this course, in a lot
of ways, hopefully, when you guys walk
away from it, is to actually practically
know how to build infrastructure.
You might not build
the infrastructure that we build, but
you should at least be able to see
the problems that you guys deal with and
take steps forward with that.
So let's go and get started.
First and foremost, hello there,
I am Erik Reinhart.
This is also my follow message
every time you follow me on Twitch.
So for anyone who watches,
you'll appreciate that.
I am a software engineer,
I'm a senior software engineer.
I'm also known as Blackglasses online.
So if you've ever heard anyone
call me BG or anything like that,
that's my that's my tag on the Internet.
I am a content creator.
I stream on the AltF4Stream on Twitch,
and we also do YouTube as well.
I'm a flowchart artist, as I like to say.
I fell in love with making flowcharts when
I started working with DevOps, and so
it became a big part of what I do and
what I create as well.
And then also, I'm a problem solver.
I really wanted to kind of give you
guys a perspective of how I see
myself because I do feel like it's
a part of why I am where I am.
So my experience paths, I have
a pretty interesting experience path.
I started out in frontend, actually.
I first started technically as a customer
support agent at a web hosting company,
and then I started building
stuff on the CS floor.
I got really excited about that, and
they started noticing me building things.
And they were why is
the CS agent programming?
And then they brought me over to
engineering about a year later and
I started working on frontend for
a company called Media Temple.
If you guys have ever heard of
Media Temple before, it's, or
was, a pretty awesome web hosting company.
And I worked on the frontend for
that for about three years.
I focused heavily on PHP,
the good old days, and
CSS when it was sass and
lass and all of that fun stuff.
And I did that, yeah,
for about three years.
And my curiosity is something
that's always led me towards
the next part of my career.
And so I started getting bored with it.
There's parts of programming frontend
which is really challenging, really fun,
and really great.
There's other parts to it which are adding
buttons and that's not very fun.
[LAUGH] And I got to a point
where unfortunately the company
had focused more on selling
things than innovating things.
And so I felt that, and I was like,
I can't do this anymore.
And so I actually led towards backend.
I was like, all right, well,
let's try backend out.
I've never done this before.
And then I ended up actually
getting a job doing that.
I left Media Temple,
I went somewhere else.
And I got a job doing backend for
about two and a half, three years.
And then once again, unfortunately,
the company started becoming a little
bit more focused on just making money.
And so I kind of checked out there.
And I led towards full stack.
And what I started realizing through
this process was, is that one,
I was accumulating knowledge of each
stack as I was going through and
getting these different positions, right?
But I was also learning what I liked and
what I didn't like.
And that's really hard to do in this
industry from time to time, cuz there's so
many things out there.
There's so many different ways and
so many different opportunities.
And I get asked a lot,
how did you get to DevOps?
This is how.
I kept following my curiosity.
And so once I got into full stack,
and I really started seeing, wow,
I can provision things and create
networks and all these other things.
Interestingly enough,
I actually got a job position to start
leaning into DevOps around my
third year into full stack.
And then that was when I just felt
deep down the rabbit hole and
really became a problem solver,
which is really a lot of what DevOps is.
So I really started focusing my career
on implementation, building things in
frontend, and now today I'm supporting
those things and helping them grow.
So welcome, [LAUGH] welcome to the course.
So the introduction to the course, this is
actually two things I did in this course.
One of them was I added a lot of GIFs.
Two, there are quotes from
AI in between here, so
we get to see what AI's perspective
on some of these things are.
So an introduction to the course,
the first quote we have is,
if you don't know what problem you're
solving, you can't solve them, thanks, AI.
[LAUGH] And so the reality of it is
that what we're really trying to do
is we wanna build off of what we
learned in DevOps for Developers.
And really try and figure out what
problems we have to solve, right?
And how we're going to solve them.
So taking what we learned from
the previous course, right?
We want to break down common
problems an organization has, right?
These are just common problems.
And a lot of the things about this in
this process is just think simply.
We don't have to overcomplicate and
go super down the rabbit hole just yet.
We're a brand new company.
What are just the simple problems we're
gonna deal with out the gate, right?
Secondly, and this is very important,
who are we solving these problems for?
Right, when we talk about money and
we talk about a company,
if you can't validate what that money's
going towards, then it's really,
sometimes it's a situation where you might
have to take a step back and go, okay,
I might just be solving this for
myself, right?
Explain why it's important to
solve these problems, right?
So once you've decided, okay,
what the problem is, how do I identify it?
We're gonna then explain, well,
why is it important to solve it?
If you get past that, if you get past all
three of those, then we get to a point
where we can actually build something
that we feel confident in building.
So that's that's a big part of the course
that we're gonna be trying to do with
everything we do in this course.
So is DevOps for Developers
course required for this course?
No, it's not.
Not at all, but it will help.
The DevOps for Developers course does
a great job of creating fundamentals for
you as well to help you understand
just what the DevOps mindset is.
I don't think it's required, but
if you wanna truly understand
the fundamentals of how to think in
DevOps world, I do think it'll help.
Should you watch it?
Yes, you should.
[LAUGH] I highly recommend watching it.
I think we did a great job on it.